# Bibliography 3

[The Spread of Obesity in a Large Social Network over 32 Years](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMsa066082#t=article)

"The Spread of Obesity in a Large Social Network over 32 Years." Nicholas A. Christakis, M.D., Ph.D., M.P.H., and James H. Fowler, Ph.D. _N Engl J Med 2007_; 357:370-379. July 26, 2007.

In this study, these two researchers examined a network of 12067 people over 32 years, predicting that obesity is spread through social connectivity. They use the term "ego" to represent key subjects and "alters" to represent those linked to egos. They graphed the network using the Kamada-Kawai algorithm in Pajek software (not too sure what this is) and examined whether the data conformed to small-world, scale-free, and hierarchical types of network models. The researchers considered three explanations for the clustering of obese people: homophily (egos associate with alters), confounding (egos share attributes or experiences that cause their weight to vary at the same time), and induction (alters exert social influence on egos). The researchers arrived at a number of interesting conclusions that may or may not mean anything, such as that there is a relationship between the obesities of egos and alters up to three degrees of separation. The final conclusion the researchers arrived upon was that obesity spreads in social networks in a quantifiable and discernable pattern that depends on the nature of social ties - as such, the researchers hope that their findings will help slow the spread of obesity, since they have found a possible cause of its spread.
