# [Towards truly agent-based traffic and mobility simulations](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1018794)
Michael Balmera, Nurhan Cetinb, Kai Nagelc, and Bryan Raney

Balmera et. al. introduces the idea of agent-based mobility simulation systems that are composed of two layers - the physical layer, where agents can move and avoid each other and so on, and the mental layer, where agents strategize and plan routes and so on. They then describe methods for generating these layers. The most groundbreaking thing about the authors' experiment is that instead of making their system learn and adapt, they make the agents within the system learn, claiming that when other experiments are based on making the systems learn, the agents themselves lose track of their previous plans, making the simulation much less accurate. (Someone who's late to work because of traffic on Road A is not likely to forget and keep using Road A in the future.) They present the results of their simulation in comparison with the results of a real case study from Switzerland. They generate graphs to visualize the clustering of the two networks, plots of the data from their simulation and from the case study, and a table of results displaying the bias and error of the simulation and the case study. They find that their results have a 30% margin of error in relation to the case scenario's data, which is not perfect, but Balmera et. al. do make several suggestions as to future steps and improvements to their experiment.
